Add pip package builder (#274)
Mstrutov/Desbordante: README_PYPI.md

<p>
   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Mstrutov/Desbordante/main/images/desbordante-preview.png"/>
</p>

---

# desbordante: high-performance data profiler

## What is it?

**desbordante** is a high-performance data profiler oriented towards exploratory data analysis

Website: https://desbordante.unidata-platform.ru/

> ## Table of Content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Table of Contents
```

- [Main Features](#main-features)
- [Usage Example](#usage-example)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Installation from sources](#installation-from-sources)
- [Cite](#cite)
- [Contacts and Q&A](#contacts-and-qa)

# Main Features

**desbordante** can discover and validate a range of data patterns, such as

1. Functional dependencies, both exact and approximate (discovery and validation)
2. Conditional functional dependencies (discovery)
3. Metric functional dependencies (validation)
4. Fuzzy algebraic constraints (discovery)
5. Association rules (discovery)

> Package is just a bindings for the core c++ library, so it is currently **2-10 times faster** than the
> competitors, depending on the algorithm and table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This package uses the library of the platform named Desbordante, which is written in C++.
Depending on the algorithm and dataset, it may be **2-10 times faster** than the alternatives.
```

Discover approximate functional dependencies with different error thresholds:

```python-repl
>>> import desbordante
>>> pyro = desbordante.Pyro()
>>> pyro.load_data('iris.csv', ',', False)
>>> pyro.execute(error=0.0)
>>> pyro.get_fds()
[( 0 1 2 ) -> 4, ( 0 2 3 ) -> 4, ( 0 1 3 ) -> 4, ( 1 2 3 ) -> 4]
>>> pyro.execute(error=0.1)
>>> pyro.get_fds()
[( 2 ) -> 0, ( 2 ) -> 1, ( 0 ) -> 2, ( 2 ) -> 4, ( 2 ) -> 3, ( 3 ) -> 2, ( 3 ) -> 0, ( 0 ) -> 1, ( 0 ) -> 3, ( 1 ) -> 0, ( 1 ) -> 2, ( 3 ) -> 4, ( 3 ) -> 1, ( 1 ) -> 3, ( 0 ) -> 4, ( 1 ) -> 4]
>>> pyro.execute(error=0.2)
>>> pyro.get_fds()
[( 2 ) -> 1, ( 2 ) -> 0, ( 2 ) -> 4, ( 0 ) -> 2, ( 2 ) -> 3, ( 0 ) -> 1, ( 3 ) -> 4, ( 3 ) -> 2, ( 3 ) -> 1, ( 3 ) -> 0, ( 1 ) -> 2, ( 0 ) -> 3, ( 0 ) -> 4, ( 1 ) -> 0, ( 1 ) -> 4, ( 1 ) -> 3]
>>> pyro.execute(error=0.3)
>>> pyro.get_fds()
[( 2 ) -> 1, ( 0 ) -> 2, ( 2 ) -> 0, ( 3 ) -> 0, ( 2 ) -> 3, ( 1 ) -> 0, ( 2 ) -> 4, ( 3 ) -> 2, ( 0 ) -> 1, ( 1 ) -> 2, ( 3 ) -> 1, ( 3 ) -> 4, ( 0 ) -> 3, ( 4 ) -> 2, ( 4 ) -> 1, ( 0 ) -> 4, ( 1 ) -> 3, ( 1 ) -> 4, ( 4 ) -> 3]
```

More examples can be found in Desbordante repository on GitHub: https://github.com/Mstrutov/Desbordante/examples

## Installation

> The source code is currently hosted on GitHub at: https://github.com/Mstrutov/Desbordante

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The source code is currently hosted on GitHub at https://github.com/Mstrutov/Desbordante
```

> Binary installers for the latest released version are available at the Python Package Index (PyPI)

Reviewer: Binary installers?

```bash
$ pip install desbordante
 ```

## Installation from sources

> You must install all dependencies listed in [README.md](https://github.com/Mstrutov/Desbordante/README.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install all dependencies listed in [README.md](https://github.com/Mstrutov/Desbordante/README.md)
```

> Then in the desbordante directory (same one where you found this file after cloning the git repo), execute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, in the desbordante directory (the same one that contains this file), execute:
```

```bash
$ ./build.sh
$ pip install .
```

## Cite

If you use this software for research, please cite one of our papers:

1) George Chernishev, et al. Solving Data Quality Problems with Desbordante: a Demo. CoRR abs/2307.14935 (2023).
2) George Chernishev, et al. "Desbordante: from benchmarking suite to high-performance science-intensive data profiler (
   preprint)". CoRR abs/2301.05965. (2023).
3) M. Strutovskiy, N. Bobrov, K. Smirnov and G. Chernishev, "Desbordante: a Framework for Exploring Limits of Dependency
   Discovery Algorithms," 2021 29th Conference of Open Innovations Association (FRUCT), 2021, pp. 344-354, doi:
   10.23919/FRUCT52173.2021.9435469.
4) A. Smirnov, A. Chizhov, I. Shchuckin, N. Bobrov and G. Chernishev, "Fast Discovery of Inclusion Dependencies with
   Desbordante," 2023 33rd Conference of Open Innovations Association (FRUCT), Zilina, Slovakia, 2023, pp. 264-275, doi:
   10.23919/FRUCT58615.2023.10143047.

## Contacts and Q&A

If you have any questions regarding the tool usage you can ask it in
our [google group](https://groups.google.com/g/desbordante). To contact dev team email George

> Chernishev, Maxim Strutovsky or Nikita Bobrov.

Reviewer: @Mstrutov Should this be included in the README?
